# Big-Integer
Arbitrary precision integer experiment C++
Class BigInt provides a simple, minimal implementation of an arbitrary precision integer type. This is rather a toy class used for experimental purposes. It doesn't hold a candle to professional libraries like GMP's or Python's neither in terms of capabilities nor of execution speed. 
The four basic operators, addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division, are class members, the class itself being merely a wrapper for the std::vector<unsigned lonlg long int> type.

The principal feature meant to improve computational speed is the base's choice for the internal numerical representation of the integer. The base should be a power of 10 (the higher the faster, but limited to 1000000000) so that the readable output format is obtained in a straightforward manner directly from the the built-in print format of integral types in C++. The command line reading uses the std::stoi(std::string) method.

The arithmetic employs the classical elementary algorithms and takes advantage of the fact that on modern machines there is little difference between built-in integer addition and integer multiplication running times. A different class implementation of BigInt using bit shifting operations may considerably increase execution speed through multiplication and division fast algorithms, but code complexity may increase as well. Method BigInt::Kara(BigInt&) implements a recursive Karatsuba fast mutltiplication algorithm. However, in order to favour multiplication speed the current implementation of BigInt requires that Karatsuba's algorithm shifts to the classical one once the recursion hits a certain number of decimals of the integers it is processing so that the extra additions invoked by Karatsuba's won't take longer than the multiplications the algorithm dispenses with.       
  
The experiments showed different execution times for different compilers on the same machine. A speed of up to four times higher has been obtained with Microsoft compiler in Visual Studio 2017 relative to g++ on Linux. Test programs for basic parallel implementations with OpenMP of the factorial and the binomial coefficients are included. To compile them on a Linux machine, type make at the command line. 

known issues: when compiled in Visual Studio, function BigInt::div1() stack overflows for big integers of more than 400000 digits. The class has been only randomly tested using python's integer type as a benchmark.
